this machine is the hammer strength is a
lateral front pulled down this machine
works the latissimus dorsi or lats and
some people like to call it a bit of
work through the middle at the back of
the rhomboid middle lower trapezius as
well the starting position for this
machine puts the latissimus dorsi under
a significant pre-stretch which is great
for taking it through a full range of
motion you also heard me mention the
word ice lateral before isolates all
that means that there is 2 loading
points on the machine and that the lever
arms work independently of each other
if we think about the real world and
this sort of action this sort of action
is the sort of action that we used to
try and pull ourselves up onto a
platform or a boat or in a sporting
situation trying to pull somebody down
towards us the isolate roll action helps
us to take this to another level because
we can use a single hand action by using
a single hand action what happens is it
then starts to make us do more work
through the muscles that stabilize our
spine laterally it also gives us
rotational force in pulling movements as
well let's think about how we're going
to see ourselves up and get ourselves
going as I mentioned before there's two
voting points so you see I've got a
weight plate already loaded on this side
and there is the second side make sure
that you've got the same weight on each
side if this is what you desire
now seat height position the seat height
such that as you pull through the elbow
passes through this part of the line of
the body and the hand comes down just
around front of shoulder or slightly
below so I adjust my seat into position
by lifting it up and then dropping it
back make sure that the knee pad is
slightly elevated we take hold of the
handles in a reverse grip position
coming in underneath I sit down and then
use my knees pressing against the knee
pad so it slides down and locks me in
position my chin is up my chest is high
and my stomach's braced my shoulders
come down out of my ears as my elbows
drive down towards the side of my torso
controlling back up to top range of
motion shoulders down out of theirs as I
put my elbows down to the line of my
torso controlling back up to top range
and just making sure you get that bit of
a stretch as we said repeat the action
for the desired number of repetitions we
mentioned the ISIL actual concept this
one I view so far has been using two
hands that helps us balance out any
strength difference from one side to the
other as I mentioned you can use a
single hand action when using a single
hand action placing the hand across the
stomach reminding you to switch on those
core muscles still getting the
pre-stretch once again getting the
shoulder down bring the elbow through to
the line of the torso and controlling
back up getting the pre-stretch shoulder
down elbow to the line of the torso and
controlling back up this helps develop
the strength of those lateral
stabilizers of our spine as well as our
core muscles and the muscles that help
us produce rotational pulling movements
we can also with the 2 loading points
work through an alternating action same
thing the chin is up the chest is high
with this one we pull through a single
arm action and then alternate from side
to side what this does it alternates the
use of the muscles that are stabilizing
our spine laterally it alternates the
use of the muscles that are helping us
produce power in rotational pulling
movements some of the common mistakes
that you'll see when people use this
machine you'll see people and they'll
forget to engage their back they'll just
pull through with the biceps and the
shoulders will stay up around the ears
for this reason we say to take the
shoulders down out of the ears as the
elbows pull through to the side of the
torso extending through the back some
people will try and pull too much
through the back let's try and work into
the muscles that were intending to
target being the lats middle upper back
and bicep also
the mechanics of this machine designed
that the hand is reversed in a reverse
grip position I'm facing towards you
avoid grabbing with palms facing away
this is not the correct biomechanics for
the machine
finally when using a single hand action
on this machine be very conscious of
trying to keep that body symmetrical
avoid leaning too far forward and then
leaning too far to walk far away to try
and stabilize you want to stabilize
yourself by using the muscles around the
spine and around the core abdominal
region so that you're keeping yourself
in the correct posture if you want to
design a balanced program you may
consider using the hammer strip super
incline